In this lecture, we are going to create a translation templates for our plugin.
There are various tools available for generating a templates.
In my opinion, the best tool is the WordPress CLI.
In the resource section of this lecture, I provide a link to the WP CLI Handbook.
This handbook will provide a basic overview of this tool.
The WP CLI was created for interacting with WordPress sites from the command line.
It's different from the other command line tools we've worked with thus far.
The WordPress Scripts package is aimed at plugin development.
This tool can completely manage your WordPress site without using a UI.
We can install plugins, create posts, update users and download.
WordPress developers may prefer to manage WordPress from the command line rather than an interface.
I don't normally use this tool.
However, it has a command for generating template files.
It's beneficial for plugin and theme developers.
Let's give it a try.
First, we must install this tool.
If you're using local, this tool has been installed for you.
However, if you're using a different environment, you must follow the installation instructions from
the installing page.
For those of you following along with me, let's open the WP CLI with local open the local application.
If we select our site, there's an option for opening the site shell.
Click on this option.
After doing so, a command line will open.
Unlike the command line from our system, this command line will have access to the WPC line.
Therefore, we can run commands from this package.
You may receive errors from the command line.
That's perfectly fine.
We can test the CLI by running a command called WP minus minus version.
BWP CLE can be accessed by typing the WP command.
In this example, we're adding the version flag to grab the current version of the CLI.
If the version appears that's perfect, we can continue with our objective.
Let's move into the Udemy plus plugin directory.
The command line will place you in this directory.
We must manually move into it.
If you forget where to find the directory, you can refer to local.
There's an option for opening the project directory.
From there, you can run the command to move around the system.
I'm going to quickly move into our plugins directory.
Once you've moved into the directory, we can type the following commands.
WP I 18 n make pot.
This command has two arguments.
The first argument is the name of the directory of our plug in.
By providing a directory, the tool will scan the entire directory for files with translations.
As long as our application is using the official WordPress functions for translating checks, they'll
be extracted by this command.
It'll extract those translations into a separate file.
In this example, we are going to add a dot.
We're already inside the plugin directory.
We can tell the commands to run from within the current directory by passing in a dot.
Next we can set the name of the file for storing translations by providing a path.
Let's use the following path.
Languages slash youtube plus dot plot.
Translations should be stored in a separate directory from our PHP and JavaScript files.
Most developers prefer storing translations in a directory called Languages.
Let's follow this practice for consistency.
Within this directory, the name of our translation files should be named after the name of our plugin.
Let's run the command.
This command may take a while to execute.
It's searching through our files for translations after the command finishes running.
It'll output a success message.
Let's open the plugin in our editors.
As you can see, a new directory was created called Languages inside this directory.
There's a new file called Utility Plus Dot Plot.
There are three types of files for handling translations.
The first file type is called Potts.
These files are considered templates.
They must always contain the original translation of a plugin.
Translators can create a copy of this file with the extension files.
With the POA extension are considered the official translation of a plug in.
Typically, these files are in other languages.
The last file type is called MO.
Unlike the other file types, you cannot modify these files.
They've been compiled into machine readable code for WordPress loading translation files can take a
while to speed up the process.
ML files are optimized for machines.
Creating these files can be a pain.
Luckily, there is a plug in for expediting this process.
Let's talk about this plugin in the following lecture.